README.md, before:


# Postman Newman testing

Simple project to use Postman's [Newman](https://github.com/postmanlabs/newman/) tool to test the BAS People API.

## Background

This project will be developed using the Government Digital Service (GDS) design phases methodology. This defines five stages:

* *Discovery* - user requirements gathering
* *Alpha* - prototyping based on user requirements
* *Beta* - refinement of prototype to build a stable project
* *Live* - launch of project, improvements and maintenance
* *Retirement* - either because it will be replaced or discontinued

This project is part of a project to add a testing and deployment workflow to BAS APIs in order to reduce manual testing/verification of changes, improve the speed changes are delivered and improve the robustness of our services.

This project is in *Alpha*, when it reaches *Beta* it most likely be merged into this larger project. It is therefore not expected this project will move beyond *Beta* and move straight to *Retirement*.

The tests performed by Newman will need to executed by *something*, ideally this would be some sort of Continuous Integration (CI) service, such as [Semaphore](semaphoreci.com) or [Bamboo](https://www.atlassian.com/software/bamboo), though manual testing will still be needed.

This API testing will form part of a Continuous Deployment (CD) process (i.e. only deploy if tests are green). Ideally the CI and CD process would both be performed by the same service (in additional to manually) to reduce costs and configuration.

## TODO

Roughly from highest to lowest priority:

* Use Postman's *data* file format for testing the getByID ad getByAlias methods of the People resource (i.e. don't hard-code in environment)
* Test with Semaphore
* Add JSON Schema validation to methods to better test payloads
* Testing with Bamboo
* Format README using normal conventions
* Work on a proper way to store and distribute Ansible vault password files (add to prelude role? Download from team directory? [Private key for authentication] or S3 bucket? [ENV_VAR for authentication])
* If Newman proves useful, convert into a proper BARC role

## Requirements

* Typical project requirements (Vagrant, Ansible, etc.)
* Ansible vault password file [1]

[1] This playbook uses an Ansible vault managed variables file to set the API user credentials. The password for this vault is contained in `provisioning/vault_pass.txt` and passed to the `ansible-playbook` at run time.

For obvious reasons this file is **MUST NOT** be checked into source control and instead be manually copied into place. Users can request this file by contacting the BAS Web & Applications Team, see the *Feedback* section of this README for details.

## Setup

```shell
$ vagrant up
$ ansible-playbook -i provisioning/development provisioning/site-dev.yml --vault-password-file provisioning/.vault_pass.txt
```

## Usage

This project includes a Postman collection and environment [1] suitable for testing the BAS People API. These are feed into Newman and the various tests specified in requests in the collection are executed.

```shell
$ ssh app@postman-newman-dev-node1.v.m
$ newman -c collection.json -e environment.json
```

Note: Newman is executed manually, rather than through Ansible, to prevent Ansible swallowing all output to `stdout` (i.e. the test results).

[1] This environment file **SHOULD** include entries for API user credentials, however the values for these entries are stored in clear-text and therefore cannot be checked into source control.

To overcome this, the environment file is stored as a Ansible template with variable substitutions used for sensitive values, an Ansible vault managed variables file stores these sensitive values. This variables file a template task are included in the `site-dev.yml` playbook to dynamically create a *filled in* environment file. This file **MUST NOT** be checked into source control.

## Feedback

Please log all feedback to the BAS Web and Applications Team:

* If you are a BAS/NERC staff member please use our [Jira project](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BASWEB) with the *Research* and *Projects* components.
* If you are external to BAS/NERC please email [basweb@bas.ac.uk](mailto:basweb@bas.ac.uk) to log feedback directly.

## License

Copyright 2015 NERC BAS.

Unless stated otherwise, all documentation is licensed under the Open Government License version 3 and all code licensed under the MIT License.

Copies of all licenses are included in this project's root directory.

Commit message:

Adding support for Postman's data file
This removes the hard-coded values for person-id and person-alias and replaces them with a JSON array (currently with three values). This file is currently statically defined, but there is no reason why this couldn't be generated dynamically by some other process obviously.

README.md, after:


# Postman Newman testing

Simple project to use Postman's [Newman](https://github.com/postmanlabs/newman/) tool to test the BAS People API.

## Background

This project will be developed using the Government Digital Service (GDS) design phases methodology. This defines five stages:

* *Discovery* - user requirements gathering
* *Alpha* - prototyping based on user requirements
* *Beta* - refinement of prototype to build a stable project
* *Live* - launch of project, improvements and maintenance
* *Retirement* - either because it will be replaced or discontinued

This project is part of a project to add a testing and deployment workflow to BAS APIs in order to reduce manual testing/verification of changes, improve the speed changes are delivered and improve the robustness of our services.

This project is in *Alpha*, when it reaches *Beta* it most likely be merged into this larger project. It is therefore not expected this project will move beyond *Beta* and move straight to *Retirement*.

The tests performed by Newman will need to executed by *something*, ideally this would be some sort of Continuous Integration (CI) service, such as [Semaphore](semaphoreci.com) or [Bamboo](https://www.atlassian.com/software/bamboo), though manual testing will still be needed.

This API testing will form part of a Continuous Deployment (CD) process (i.e. only deploy if tests are green). Ideally the CI and CD process would both be performed by the same service (in additional to manually) to reduce costs and configuration.

## TODO

Roughly from highest to lowest priority:

* Test with Semaphore
* Add JSON Schema validation to methods to better test payloads
* Testing with Bamboo
* Format README using normal conventions
* Work on a proper way to store and distribute Ansible vault password files (add to prelude role? Download from team directory? [Private key for authentication] or S3 bucket? [ENV_VAR for authentication])
* If Newman proves useful, convert into a proper BARC role

## Requirements

* Typical project requirements (Vagrant, Ansible, etc.)
* Ansible vault password file [1]

[1] This playbook uses an Ansible vault managed variables file to set the API user credentials. The password for this vault is contained in `provisioning/vault_pass.txt` and passed to the `ansible-playbook` at run time.

For obvious reasons this file is **MUST NOT** be checked into source control and instead be manually copied into place. Users can request this file by contacting the BAS Web & Applications Team, see the *Feedback* section of this README for details.

## Setup

```shell
$ vagrant up
$ ansible-playbook -i provisioning/development provisioning/site-dev.yml --vault-password-file provisioning/.vault_pass.txt
```

## Usage

This project includes a Postman collection, data file [1] and environment [2] suitable for testing the BAS People API. These are feed into Newman and the various tests specified in requests in the collection are executed.

```shell
$ ssh app@postman-newman-dev-node1.v.m
$ newman -c collection.json -d data.json -e environment.json
```

Note: Newman is executed manually, rather than through Ansible, to prevent Ansible swallowing all output to `stdout` (i.e. the test results).

[1] This data file is simply a JSON array with each value replacing an environment variable on each iteration [3]. The number of iterations is defined by the number of items in the JSON array.

[2] This environment file **SHOULD** include entries for API user credentials, however the values for these entries are stored in clear-text and therefore cannot be checked into source control.

To overcome this, the environment file is stored as a Ansible template with variable substitutions used for sensitive values, an Ansible vault managed variables file stores these sensitive values. This variables file a template task are included in the `site-dev.yml` playbook to dynamically create a *filled in* environment file. This file **MUST NOT** be checked into source control.

[3] The variables set by this data file do not need to exist within the environment, values for the current iteration and *static* values defined in the environment file will be merged together. Consequently there is no difference in accessing a variable from the environment file or data file, both use the `{{variable}}` syntax.

## Feedback

Please log all feedback to the BAS Web and Applications Team:

* If you are a BAS/NERC staff member please use our [Jira project](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BASWEB) with the *Research* and *Projects* components.
* If you are external to BAS/NERC please email [basweb@bas.ac.uk](mailto:basweb@bas.ac.uk) to log feedback directly.

## License

Copyright 2015 NERC BAS.

Unless stated otherwise, all documentation is licensed under the Open Government License version 3 and all code licensed under the MIT License.

Copies of all licenses are included in this project's root directory.
